Send encryption (#492)
bitwarden/help: _articles/send/send-encryption.md

---
layout: article
title: Send Encryption
categories: [send]
featured: true
popular: false
tags: [bitwarden send, send, about send, ephemeral sharing]
order: 07
---

## Send Encryption

Sends are a secure and ephemeral mechanism for transmitting sensitive information to anyone, include plaintext and files. As the [About Send]({% link _articles/send/about-send.md %}) article notes, Sends are **end-to-end encrypted**, meaning that encryption (*described below*) and decryption occur client-side. When you create a Send:

> 1. A new 16-byte secret key is generated for the Send.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. A new 128-bit secret key is generated for the Send.
```

Reviewer: not sure if we use bytes or bits elsewhere in docs. I don't really care as long as we are consistent. sometimes "bit" sounds better since it's a bigger number.

Author: Looks like "bits" are more prevalent than "bytes" in the docs, so I went ahead with this change.

> 2. Using HKDF, the secret key is salted and hashed with SHA-256 to derive an encryption key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Using HKDF-SHA256, a 512-bit encryption key is derived from the secret key.
```

3. The derived key is used to AES-256 encrypt the Send, including its file/text data and metadata (Name, Filename, Notes, etc.).

   {% callout success %}Any [password]({{site.baseurl}}/article/send-privacy/#send-passwords) used to protect a Send **is not involved in encryption** and decryption of a Send. Passwords are purely an authentication method, however password-protected Sends will be [blocked from decrypting](#send-decryption) until password authentication is successful.{% endcallout %}
4. The encrypted Send is uploaded to Bitwarden servers, including a unique Send ID that Bitwarden uses to [identify the Send for decryption](#send-decryption) but **not including** the encryption key.

## Send Decryption

Sends are decrypted by opening the [Send link]({% link _articles/send/receive-send.md %}), which are constructed from a unique Send ID and the derived encryption key:

`https://vault.bitwarden.com/#/send/send_id/encryption_key`

When you access a Send link:

> 1. The client requests a Send access page from Bitwarden servers.

Reviewer 2: I think

Author: I might be confused there. In Step 1, isn't it just a web browser requesting the Send page, but then when the Send page is returned (Step 2) you're saying it's returned as a "Web Vault" client, sans the actual Vault (and the username/master password that would entail)?
